Migrate QA cloud agents to Claude Code with Linode provisioning (#1138)
percona/pmm-qa: .claude/agents/test-runner.md

**Input:** Jira key (e.g. `PMM-15196`) from the user, webhook `issueKey`, or Slack/Jira message. Natural language is fine ("please test PMM-15196") — you do not need a rigid slash prefix when this role file is loaded.

**Being invoked:** an interactive chat ask, a Jira Automation rule firing this Routine directly with the ticket key, or a Slack `@pmm-ai` mention that `.claude/agents/router.md` matched here — Router reads this file and follows it in the same session, it doesn't fire a separate Routine.

## Knowledge (read by path before acting)

| Skill | Path |
|-------|------|
| Jira read/write, visibility | `.claude/skills/jira/SKILL.md` |
| FB checks, JNKPercona | `.claude/skills/fb-tests/SKILL.md` |
| Linode VM + pmm-framework provisioning | `.claude/skills/linode-provisioning/SKILL.md` |
| PR diffs, JSON dashboards | `.claude/skills/git-diff/SKILL.md` |
| UI screenshots / recordings | `.claude/skills/ui-evidence/SKILL.md` |
| Repo map, gh rules | `.claude/skills/repos/SKILL.md` |
| FB evidence for the ticket's linked submodules PR | `.claude/agents/fb-reporter.md` |

Read each file when its step needs it. Do not guess field IDs or setup commands.

## Workflow

> 1. **Read ticket** — Atlassian MCP: summary, AC, `customfield_10083`, `customfield_10492`, dev links, comments. Cross-check with `git-diff` on linked `percona/pmm` / `percona/grafana` PRs.

Author: mention json-diff, if needed

Author: Added in ec71a27.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

2. **Plan** — Short test plan: criteria, `DOCKER_ENV_VARIABLE`, `CLIENTS` / DB needs, post-provision steps, FB images from latest JNKPercona comment on linked pmm-submodules PR (`gh` only).

> 3. **Provision** — Follow `linode-provisioning`: `terraform/linode-runner/up.sh test-runner <run-id>` spins up a throwaway Linode VM and `git clone`s `percona/pmm-qa` onto it, then `run.sh` runs the **unmodified** `qa-integration/pmm_qa/pmm-framework/pmm-framework` there — same entrypoint as Jenkins/EC2, no forks. If a fix under test isn't on `main` yet, push it to a branch first and pass it as `PMM_QA_REF` — never edit files directly on the box.

Author: No need to explain what the provisioning does, it has access to the skill for that

Author: Trimmed in ec71a27 — step 3 now just says "follow `linode-provisioning`" plus the PMM_QA_REF/never-edit-on-box rules that aren't in the skill.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

4. **Execute** — `run.sh` for API/CLI/DB checks; local Playwright/Chromium for UI per `ui-evidence` (use the box's plain, non-`exec-`-prefixed hostname — see `linode-provisioning`'s "Accessing the VM").

> 5. **FB evidence** — every ticket has a linked pmm-submodules PR; read `.claude/agents/fb-reporter.md` and follow it **in this same session** (don't spawn it as a subagent — same Routines-uncertainty reasoning as elsewhere), passing that PR number and this ticket's key. It attaches the FB screenshot to `customfield_10492` itself; you don't need to repeat that in your own comment below, just mention it's there if relevant.

Author: ```suggestion
5. **FB evidence** — every ticket has a linked pmm-submodules PR; read `.claude/agents/fb-reporter.md` and follow it as a sub-agent or directly, passing that PR number and this ticket's key. It attaches the FB screenshot to `customfield_10492` itself; you don't need to repeat that in your own comment below, just mention it's there if relevant.
```

Author: Applied in ec71a27.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> 6. **Report** — One Jira comment, **Developers visibility only** (see `jira`). Include pass/fail per criterion, artifact paths, blockers. Do not mark pass if criteria failed.

Author: ```suggestion
6. **Report** — One Jira comment (see `jira` skill). Include pass/fail per criterion, artifact paths, blockers. Do not mark pass if criteria failed. Be concise.
```

Author: Applied in ec71a27 — also dropped the Developers-visibility-only callout here since the `jira` skill already mandates it (see the removed Never item below too).

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> 7. **Automation decision** — After manual QA: if a minimal `pmm-qa` test adds clear value, implement and open PR to `percona/pmm-qa` only. Otherwise stop after Jira comment.

Author: ```suggestion
7. **Automation decision** — After manual QA: if the change added functionality or something that we don't have coverage yet in our pipelines, and the setup is not something completely different from current test patterns and a `pmm-qa` test adds clear value, implement it as part of the playwright tests (CLI or Playwright UI) and open PR to `percona/pmm-qa` only. Otherwise stop after Jira comment. Don't code tests in codecept.js.
```

Author: Applied in ec71a27.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

8. **Cleanup (mandatory, every path — pass, fail, or error)** — `terraform/linode-runner/down.sh <run-id>`. Never leave a run's Linode VM behind; this is your last step even if the ticket testing failed or was blocked.

## Never

- Open PRs to `percona/pmm` or `percona/grafana`

> - `git clone` `Percona-Lab/pmm-submodules`

Author: remove the rule of git clone we have hook for that

Author: Removed in ec71a27 — `block-pmm-submodules-clone.sh` already enforces this.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Modify `qa-integration/` — it is the single source of truth shared with Jenkins/EC2/CI; provisioning fixes belong in a separate, dedicated PR, never as a side effect of a QA run

Author: Unless the PR objectively changed the required setup somehow.

Author: Added as an explicit exception in ec71a27: "...never as a side effect of a QA run, unless the ticket under test objectively required that setup change itself."

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

- Trust "How to test" without reading PR diff

> - Post public Jira comments on QA results

Author: remove that line, let it post jira comments as will and it will read the skill with the rule to not change the role from developer

Author: Removed in ec71a27 — confirmed the `jira` skill already has "Never post QA results as public comments. Always restrict to Developers role" as a mandatory rule, so this was a duplicate.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_
